---
id: 125878
coords:
- '4.359959'
- '52.005922'
threads:
- Blue and White Ceramics
- The China Trade
- Asian Design and Influence
- Date for Sorting
relateds: []
relatedCaption: 
relatedCaption2: 
displayDate: c. 1700
sortDate: 1700
---

## Blue and White Ceramics

### Imitation: the highest form of flattery

When Chinese porcelain began to flow into the Netherlands, Dutch potters faced losses as people sought out this new import. Then they found a way to cash in, producing cheaper imitations painted with similar motifs. The Dutch city of Delft, in particular, became a center for this type of glazed earthenware.

* * *

## The China Trade

### The Next Best Thing?

As Chinese ceramics flowed into the Netherlands, Dutch artisans sought to ride the wave with cheaper imitations. And it worked. At the height of production, 32 factories in the Dutch city of Delft were churning out Delftware, a popular style of blue-and-white ceramics painted to resemble the more expensive Chinese imports.

* * *

## Asian Design and Influence

### Dutch Imitation of Chinese Porcelain

The Dutch potters who created this multi-tiered vase were capitalizing on the Dutch mania for Chinese blue-and-white porcelain, then being imported in large quantities. Since they hadn’t yet discovered the secrets of creating true porcelain, they had to work in brown clay and coat it with white glaze decorated with cobalt blue. With so much of the real thing on hand, however, Dutch potters did become excellent copyists. This vase is covered with scrolling lotuses, chrysanthemums, ruyi (scepter heads), and the Chinese character for longevity. Still, familiarity did not lead to understanding—it’s not likely that the Dutch craftsmen or their customers knew the meaning of these motifs.

* * *

## Date for Sorting

### 1700
