---
id: 19404
coords:
- "-70.893203"
- '42.521138'
threads:
- The China Trade
- Asian Design and Influence
- The Silver Trade
- The Triangle Trade
relateds: []
displayDate: late 18th century
sortDate: 1790
location: "[New England (Maine)]"
related:
  label: ''
  ids: []
next:
  label: ''
  ids: []
---

## The China Trade

### Capitlizing on Growing Markets

Elaborate wallpapers like this one were hand-painted in China to decorate homes in Europe and New England. They were status symbols, signaling the refined and expensive tastes of homeowners to their guests. They were also examples of Chinese producers cashing in on the growing hunger in Europe and the United States for all things Chinese by creating goods specifically for these foreign markets.

* * *

## Asian Design and Influence

### Poor Taste?

This hand-painted wallpaper was produced in China in the late 1700s or early 1800s for the Western market—a phenomenon known as chinoiserie. Despite its popularity, the style was deemed unsophisticated by some elites. They thought it was only suitable for women, whose interests they judged to be equally unsophisticated. This notion that Asian art—and other art inspired by it—was not intellectually stimulating stemmed from both a lack of understanding and a muddling of tradition, something lost in translation when East met West.

* * *

## The Silver Trade

### Goods Created for a Foreign Market

There was great demand for products from China and Japan in Europe like this wallpaper made in China for a European home. However, there was little market for European goods in Asia. This resulted in a trade imbalance that prompted Europeans, especially the British, to seek other goods besides silver and gold to use for trade. A global shortage of silver also prompted the move. That alternative import was opium grown in India. This new export and heightened demand in China for opium lessened the trade disparity and allowed the British to continue to import goods like this wallpaper into Britain. 
