---
id: '3631'
coords:
- '117.347539'
- '28.924702'
threads:
- The Silk Road
- Blue & White Ceramics
relateds:
- '1197'
location: "[Jingdezhen, Jiangxi, China]"
related:
  label: ''
  ids: []
next:
  label: ''
  ids: []
---

## The Silk Road

### Global Commerce

Blue and white-glazed porcelain was also traded along the Silk Road. This plate was produced in southern China but for the Middle Eastern market. Middle Eastern merchants living in China understood the ceramic needs and decorative taste of the Islamic countries and commissioned works like this. This plate’s large size was probably meant to appeal to Islamic customs of serving food from large plates – a practice not found in China at that time. The plate’s dense leaf and floral patterns were meant specifically for Middle Eastern tastes, which the Chinese considered somewhat vulgar during the 1300s.

* * *

## Blue & White Ceramics

### Different Taste

This plate was produced in Jingdezhen – a major ceramics center in southern China - specifically for the Middle Eastern market. Middle Eastern merchants living in China, who understood the ceramic needs and decorative taste of the Islamic countries, most likely commissioned works like this. This plate’s large size was probably meant to appeal to Islamic customs of serving food from large plates – a practice not found in China at that time. The plate’s dense leaf and floral patterns were meant specifically for Middle Eastern tastes, which the Chinese considered somewhat vulgar during the 1300s.
