---
id: 4418
coords:
- '4.883133'
- '52.370871'
threads:
- The China Trade
- The Silver Trade
- Red Dye from Mexico
- Date for Sorting
relateds: []
relatedCaption: 
relatedCaption2: 
displayDate: '1667'
sortDate: 1667
location: "[Amsterdam, Netherlands]"
related:
  label: ''
  ids: []
next:
  label: ''
  ids: []
---

## The China Trade

### The Richest Company in the World

Lucia Wijbrants poses confidently among her luxurious possessions: silver from South America, silk from China, pearls from the Indian Ocean, and a rug from the Middle East. This portrait illustrates the vast reach of the Dutch sea trade. Eager to match the sea-faring success of the Portuguese, Dutch merchants formed a state-sanctioned monopoly, later known as the Dutch East India Company. In fact, by the mid-1700s, it was the richest company in the world.

* * *

## The Silver Trade

### The Merchant’s Wife

Most silver on the world market was from Mexico and Peru, and thus controlled by Spain.  Holland had gained its independence from Spain, and had to look for other sources of silver if they wanted to trade with China.  Enter the Dutch East India Company, the first truly globally integrated company in history. Because of their vast trading network, Dutch merchants could connect supply and demand in sophisticated ways: Japan had silver, but wanted Indian silks.  Dutch merchants, like Lucia Wijbrant’s husband, could trade Indian silks for Japanese silver, and then trade Japanese silver for Chinese products, which they brought back to Europe.

* * *

## Red Dye from Mexico

### Portrait of Lucia Wijbrants

In the mid-1500s, weavers began using red dye produced from beetles found in the Americas for luxury items across Europe, including the bright red Persian rug that is draped over the table in this painting. Lucia Wijbrants—daughter and widow of cloth merchants— is depicted standing among the world’s finest luxuries including the rug that was dyed using the processed remains of the cochineal bug. Even with the cost of shipping, the dye was cheaper because American beetles were easier to farm and harvest and produced a more concentrated dye than more local sources. 

* * *

## Date for Sorting

### 1667
